# 2025-08_interdisciplinaryProject

In the summer semester of 2025, I worked on an interdisciplinary project titled ‘Solar System Detection with GeoAI’ as part of my master's degree in Computational Science at the University of Potsdam. The project was part of my work as a working student at virtualcitysystems GmbH, a Berlin-based company that develops software for urban digital twins. The exposé and the final report, which also includes the source code and all results, can be found here.

### Abstract
In this interdisciplinary project, installed solar systems in Berlin were detected with the GeoAI [https://opengeoai.org/] and a functioning analysis workflow that can be used to detect installed solar systems in other cities was built and tested. Currently, there is no publicly available dataset in Germany including all installed solar systems with their locations and sizes, so using GeoAI to detect them could help to close this gap. The resulting data can be integrated into urban digital models. To ensure valid results, the GeoAI model for solar system detection was retrained using self-created training data. Furthermore, the accuracy of the detection of solar systems by GeoAI was investigated during this project. The lack of reference data made it diffcult to determine accuracy. However, all signs indicate that the individual results of the GeoAI’s solar system detection are inaccurate and insuffcient, despite its own model training. Suggestions for improvement to increase the accuracy are provided. Nevertheless, a time series analysis of the change in installed solar systems with bias correction could provide valid results over the years.
